This is a genuinely impressive solo project. The breadth of what you've implemented from scratch — a BigInt engine with Montgomery multiplication, Schnorr signatures, ChaCha20, BLAKE2b, Argon2id, a threaded server, a wxWidgets GUI client, and a test framework — is substantial, and the code quality throughout reflects real care. The use of __restrict__ to guide the compiler's aliasing analysis, the SIMD secure memory erasure with a compiler barrier, the function pointer polymorphism for swappable communication backends, and the performance profiling with the top-down microarchitecture analysis method all show that you're thinking well beyond "does it work."
Here are the most important issues I noticed, followed by directions for improvement.

Security Issues Worth Fixing First
The most serious one is the temporary .dat file pattern used during key generation and login. In construct_msg_00, reg, gen_pub_key and the server's process_msg_00, private key material is written to disk as temp_privkey.dat or temp_privkey_DAT.dat and then deleted with system("rm ..."). This has several problems simultaneously: system() is vulnerable to PATH manipulation since it invokes a shell; rm does not guarantee that the data is overwritten on the storage medium (especially on SSDs with wear levelling); the file is briefly visible to other processes on the system; and the system() call is inherently a race condition. The fix is to generate the public key entirely in memory. Since you already have mont_pow_mod_m and all the BigInt infrastructure, gen_pub_key can simply accept a bigint* directly instead of going through a file path. The entire .dat roundtrip can be eliminated.
The second issue is that the server serializes all login handshakes behind a single global temp_handshake_memory_region_isLocked flag. This means any client that initiates a login and then goes silent can hold that lock indefinitely, blocking every other user from logging in. It is a straightforward denial-of-service. The fix is to move the handshake buffer into per-socket state — either into a field of a pre-allocated structure associated with that socket index, or dynamically allocated at the start of process_msg_00 and freed at the end of process_msg_01 or process_msg_02.
The public key validity check check_pubkey_form is commented out in both process_msg_00 (server) and process_msg_00 (client). The comment implies it was disabled for performance reasons. Without verifying that A^((M-1)/Q) mod M == 1, a small-subgroup attack becomes theoretically possible. This check is expensive, but it only runs once per login handshake, so the cost is acceptable.
There is a subtle bug in process_msg_40 on the server. When sending pending messages and then clearing them, the code does this in the loop body:
cclients[poller_ix].pending_msg_sizes[i] = 0;
memset(clients[poller_ix].pending_msgs[i], 0,
       clients[poller_ix].pending_msg_sizes[i]);
The size is set to zero before it is passed to memset, so memset erases zero bytes. The pending message buffer is never actually zeroed. The size zero assignment needs to come after the memset.
Replay attacks are currently possible. Schnorr signatures authenticate the content of a packet but not its position in time or in the sequence of packets. A captured poll packet (type 40), for example, could be replayed. Adding a strictly incrementing per-client sequence number into every signed payload, verified server-side, closes this. You are already maintaining nonce_counter on the server for the ChaCha nonces, so the infrastructure for sequence tracking is there.

Ideas for Next Improvements
The most impactful architectural improvement would be perfect forward secrecy for the session keys KAB and KBA between clients. Currently these are derived from the long-term Diffie-Hellman shared secret and persist for the entire session. If a client's long-term private key is ever compromised, past sessions can be decrypted. The login handshake already shows you know how to do ephemeral key exchange — applying the same pattern to the client-to-client key establishment (having each client generate a fresh ephemeral key pair when they join a room, exchange them via the server, and derive session keys from those) would give you proper forward secrecy.
The pending message architecture stores all undelivered messages in server RAM and delivers them on poll. Two consequences follow from this. First, if the server process is killed, all pending messages are lost. Second, the server can read every message in transit — it has to, to route it, but the current design means it also holds them indefinitely until the recipient polls. A worthwhile hardening measure is to minimize the server's dwell time on messages: deliver immediately if the recipient is online, and only fall back to the pending queue if the recipient has not polled recently. You could also explore having the server store only ciphertext it cannot decrypt, with authentication tags it can verify.
On the BigInt library, the current bigint_div2 implementation (Algorithm 14.20 from HAC with 16-bit limbs) is the performance bottleneck for everything outside the Montgomery multiplication path. The Montgomery path itself is fast, but bigint_div2 is still called in bigint_mod_pow, in mont_pow_mod_m for the final step, and in signature validation. A Barrett reduction implementation would replace the general-purpose division with a multiplication-heavy alternative that is significantly faster for fixed moduli. Given that you already have Montgomery multiplication working well, Barrett is the natural next step for the remaining division sites.
The test framework is a good foundation. The automatic simulation tests currently exercise the happy path — three users, one room, all logins succeed. Adding tests for the adversarial cases would increase confidence substantially: a client that sends a malformed packet mid-login, a client that sends a valid poll request with a forged signature, two clients attempting login simultaneously to exercise whatever concurrency fix you apply to the handshake buffer, and a room owner disconnecting abruptly (TCP RST rather than a clean logout packet) to verify that remove_user_from_rosetta is triggered correctly via the bytes_read <= 0 path in start_new_client_thread.
Running Valgrind's memcheck and a full AddressSanitizer build on the test suite would likely surface some issues. The ASAN build target already exists in the Makefile, so wiring it into the test framework runs is a small step. The bigint_div2 function allocates 19 temporary BigInts on the stack as an array and the cleanup loop iterates over all of them — worth checking under Valgrind that all allocation paths through the function are matched with cleanup paths.
Finally, the performance analysis notes that the system is Core-bound at roughly 10% of pipeline slots. Given that the dominant workload is BigInt arithmetic, the most likely cause is dependency chains in the Montgomery multiplication loop — each iteration of the inner loop depends on carry bits from the previous one, creating a serial chain that limits instruction-level parallelism. Loop unrolling and interleaving independent Montgomery multiplications (where the algorithm permits) are worth exploring. The compiler optimization reports (-fopt-info-vec-optimized, -fopt-info-loop-optimized) you are already collecting are the right starting point for identifying which loops the compiler was unable to vectorize and why.You said: Thank you.Thank you. I was actually intimidated by exploring the Core-bound performance issue. What does it mean exactly? Can you explain what "10% of the pipeline slots being Core-bound" means? Is it simply that 10% of the entire time was spent waiting and not retiring instructions because of Core-bound issues in the CPU pipeline, such as dependency chains?10:46 AMClaude responded: Great question, and it's worth unpacking carefully because the top-down method has some unintuitive accounting.Deciphered Core-bound pipeline slot metrics and performance implicationsDeciphered Core-bound pipeline slot metrics and performance implicationsGreat question, and it's worth unpacking carefully because the top-down method has some unintuitive accounting.

The top-down method's basic unit: pipeline slots
A modern out-of-order CPU can accept some fixed number of micro-operations (µops) per clock cycle — on a typical Intel or AMD core this is 4 or 6. Each of those per-cycle opportunities is called a pipeline slot. Over a measurement window of many billions of cycles, you accumulate an enormous number of pipeline slots. The top-down method asks, for each slot: what happened to it? It must fall into exactly one of four buckets.

The four top-level buckets
Retiring — the slot was used to retire a useful µop. This is the "good" bucket. 71.6% retiring is genuinely healthy; it means the CPU was doing real work most of the time.
Bad Speculation — the slot was consumed by a µop that was eventually squashed because a branch was mispredicted. The work done was discarded.
Frontend-bound — the slot went unused because the frontend (instruction fetch, decode) could not deliver a µop to the backend in time. The backend was hungry and could have accepted work but had nothing to execute.
Backend-bound — the slot went unused because the backend could not accept a µop, even though the frontend was ready to deliver one. Something downstream was full or stalled.
These four add up to exactly 100% of all slots, by construction. That is the elegant property of the method.

What Backend-bound means, and its two sub-buckets
Backend-bound is itself split into two children:
Memory-bound — the stall was caused by waiting for data. A load missed the L1 cache, or missed L2, or had to go to L3 or DRAM. The execution units were free but had no data to work on.
Core-bound — the stall was caused by something other than memory. The data was available, but the execution units were still stalled. This happens for a few distinct reasons: dependency chains (the most common), execution unit pressure (too many µops wanting the same port), or occasionally issues with the scheduler.

So what does "10% Core-bound" actually mean?
It means that out of every 100 pipeline slots that could have retired useful work, about 10 of them were wasted because the execution backend stalled for a non-memory reason. The CPU had data ready, had µops to issue, but something prevented issuing them into execution units.
To your specific question: it is not simply "10% of total time was spent waiting due to Core-bound issues." The framing is more precise than that. It means 10% of all pipeline slots — the discrete opportunities to do work — were wasted for Core-bound reasons. Since slots are tied to cycles and your cycle budget is fixed by your clock frequency, wasting 10% of slots is equivalent to saying that if you eliminated all Core-bound stalls, your throughput could improve by roughly 10% divided by the retiring fraction. With 71.6% retiring, the theoretical headroom is around 10/71.6, or roughly 14% faster execution of the same work. That is a real but not dramatic gain, which is why the analysis concluded the system is already well optimized.

Why dependency chains cause Core-bound stalls specifically
Here is the mechanism. Suppose you have this sequence where each result feeds the next:
A = X * Y        ; result available after, say, 5 cycles
B = A + Z        ; cannot start until A is ready
C = B * W        ; cannot start until B is ready
The CPU sees all three µops early — it fetched and decoded them cycles ago, they are sitting in the scheduler (the reservation station). But it cannot issue B until A's result is written back, and cannot issue C until B's result is written back. During those wait cycles, the pipeline slots allocated to B and C are burning. No memory access is involved. The data will come from registers or execution unit outputs. It is purely a latency chain through execution units that is the bottleneck.
This is exactly what happens inside your Montgomery multiplication loop. Each inner loop iteration computes carry bits that feed into the next iteration's additions. The _addcarryx_u64 intrinsic in particular produces a carry output that the very next _addcarryx_u64 depends on. You cannot issue the next add until you have the carry from the current one. The CPU's out-of-order engine can look ahead across loop iterations to find independent work, but when the dependency chain is tight and spans the entire inner loop body, there is limited independent work to find. The slots that could have issued independent µops instead sit idle waiting for the carry chain to resolve.

The practical implication for your code
The 10% figure tells you two things simultaneously. First, there is a real dependency chain problem, almost certainly in the Montgomery or BigInt arithmetic loops. Second, at 10% it is not catastrophic — the compiler and the CPU's out-of-order window are already doing a reasonable job of hiding some of it by finding other independent µops to fill slots with. To push further you would need to either reduce the latency of the chain (hard, since carry chains are architecturally serial) or interleave two independent Montgomery multiplications so that while one chain is stalling waiting for carries, the other chain's independent µops can fill the empty slots. That is the classical technique for breaking carry-chain bottlenecks and is exactly how high-performance cryptographic bignum libraries like GMP and libsecp256k1 structure their inner loops.
